Lesson: HTML Forms

Activity: Creating a Registration Form Exercise Reviewed

Transcript

Let's take a look at the exercise you've just completed.

You started with this file.

You happened to open it, right?

This is the exercise directory inside HTML forms, registration dot HTML.

You wanted to turn it into this where we had some fields, of course we had a form tag on it.

We had a couple of buttons there, the Submit button and the Reset button.

And you had a, I believe an input field.

We'll go through them together in a second.

But you started with this, really just a blank HTML file, and turned it into this, all right?

So this is how this works throughout the course that we give you most of the time where appropriate a starting file.

In this case registration dot HTML which lives in the exercises directory of HTML forms, the current lessons.

And we also give you a solution that matches our solution.

Your mileage may vary, right?

You may have a little bit different, sometimes better solution.

But at least if you get stuck, it's something to look at, to go on to get a sense of what could I have done differently if I couldn't figure it out.

Hopefully they all make sense, and this is pretty straightforward.

But just know that there's always a solution waiting for you there to compare, I suppose, against which you build yourself.

So let's take a look at registration dash 1 dot HTML, get in the solutions directory of the HTML forms directory in your class files.

So a few things you're asked to do to add a form tag.

The method is post, it sends its form data via the post verb of HTTP.

Its action was this that we gave you webucator dot com slash course dash demos, et cetera.

And you'll see in a second if you haven't already tried it out that that process formed that CSM file, a resource on our server actually does something.

So we'll take a look at that together in just a minute.

So we have the form tag.

It starts on line 10 and ends on line 29.

Any form for the most part and the way we'll be looking at them, at least initially, any form in general terms starts and ends with a form tag, an opening form tag with a method attribute and an action attribute and ends with a closing form tag.

And then you're asked to add a series of elements in input of type hidden.

Its name and ID were secret coded, its value 42.

Here it is.

And then the following form elements, name and ID of user name for an input of type text.

A password field with name and ID PW, repeat password, PW2.

A Submit button, that's an input of type submit.

Its value, that is, what's displayed on the button to the user is register.

And an input of type reset, which of course I suppose which when I fill out some data my reset simply wipes out the data that's in there.

And then if I added some data and clicked register, I would see here responding back to you, the resource on our server that gave us the field names and the values of the fields that we sent along.

I'll choose not to save that.

But here's the completed solution.

So that wraps up our quick look at that first exercise.

When you're done here, you can go on to the next activity.

We'll start talking about some other types of form elements, specifically next, checkboxes.
