Lesson: Node.js and Server-side Form Validation

Activity: Express - Node.js Web Application Framework Reviewed

Transcript

All right, let's take a look at Express, the framework-- very popular for good reason, Node.js web application framework.

And first if we look back just for a second, an earlier reading, you noticed in the routing-favicon web app that we have these cases for responding to requests.

So the home page in a sense, case forward slash-- the contact page on line 18, case /contact.

It certainly works, right?

It established a way for us to respond to requests in a differential fashion, right?

Serve back something-- the favicon, for instance.

But this method of this-- strategy of doing this can get kind of cumbersome.

And luckily, there is the Express framework which makes a lot of this much easier.

So we're looking now at minimum-express again in Demos in the Node directory.

And one of them-- well let's look at how we can get Express up and running.

So we have to include express.js in the package.json dependencies.

We can add it manually, but even easier is to-- if I open that directory in the terminal, right?

In the command line environment, if I NPM install express.js-- again, NPM, the Node Package Manager, and hit Enter, I might get a few warnings.

But in this case, I successfully was able to install Express.

It did a few things.

In package.json, it added this dependencies line on line five.

Dependencies now includes express.js of a particular version in package.json.

It included this node_modules directory, which happens to have a whole bunch of stuff.

Really things that are related to and needed by Express.

And it also added this package-lock.json file, which makes sure that future installs are compatible.

Like a lot of dependencies from different modules I might use, let's make sure they all work together nicely.

Notice also that we don't have a server.js file.

As you recall, in the absence of package.json, telling the app what file to start with, server.js is looked for by default.

So as you saw from the reading, you could either add a script line here-- scripts and then start.

And we want it to node app.js.

Or we could, as we're going to do here, simply run node app.js to start our server.

So if I go down here to the command line environment, right?

I'm at minimum-express, if I say node app.js, the server is running.

And if I look here, I get Hello, world!

If I inspect it, if I go to the network, if I look at, in this case, the response, I see that the response is there.

I can look at the headers.

The response header's X-Powered-By Express you see here.

Let's take a quick look at what's going on in app.js.

A few differences from what we've seen before.

We require Express there on line 1.

And on line 2, this constant app equals express open closed parens.

Just as before, we create an HTML variable with the backticks.

In this case, just serving up sort of static HTML.

Now we see here on line 16 sort of the equivalent to that key statement we saw before in routing-favicon, right?

Here these case statements.

Here it's just a little bit simpler, a little easier to work with.

So this app object that we created in line 2, now we can say app.get-- if there is a get request for the forward slash, then it sends the home page.

The request and response are connected with this-- as the parameters to this method with the fat arrow function.

Send back a status of 200, and send back the HTML content that we created here on line 4.

So on line 18, it responds that send HTML-- it's sending back that HTML, the content that we assigned to that variable HTML.

And then on line 21, app.listen 8080 means listen on port 8080 as you see here in my browser when I make the request.

So we'll use Express quite a bit going forward.

It's well-designed, it's a mature product, and it's worth knowing about.

All right, so that wraps up this presentation.

When you're done here, you can go on to the next reading.

We'll talk about favicon middleware.
